Add Huntress.io integration (#3019)
DataDog/integrations-extras: huntress/README.md

# Huntress

## Overview

[Huntress](https://www.huntress.com/) is a managed security platform providing endpoint detection and response (EDR), antivirus, security awareness training, and a Managed SIEM product that continuously collects and analyzes endpoint telemetry.

> This integration polls the Huntress Managed SIEM API using ES|QL queries and forwards all security events to Datadog as logs. Each collection run:

Reviewer: "Each collection run:" is a noun phrase, but "run" reads verb-first on quick scan (at least for me). 

```suggestion
This integration polls the Huntress Managed SIEM API using ES|QL queries and forwards all security events to Datadog as logs. During each collection run, the integration:
```

1. Loads a checkpoint (the timestamp of the last successful collection)
2. Executes a configurable ES|QL query for the elapsed time window
3. Paginates through all result pages
4. Optionally enriches each log with Huntress organization metadata (org name, key, account ID)
5. Forwards logs to Datadog preserving all Elastic Common Schema (ECS) field names
6. Advances the checkpoint only after all pages are successfully sent

This integration is designed for managed security providers (MSPs) and enterprise teams who want to correlate Huntress threat detections alongside infrastructure and application telemetry in Datadog.

## Setup

### Prerequisites

- Datadog Agent 7.x or later
- A Huntress account with the Managed SIEM feature enabled

> - Huntress API credentials (public API key + secret key) from the Huntress Partner Portal under **Settings > API Credentials**

Reviewer: Write out "and" instead of using "+".
```suggestion
- Huntress API credentials (public API key and secret key) from the Huntress Partner Portal under **Settings > API Credentials**
```

### Installation

Install the integration package from the Agent:

```bash
datadog-agent integration install -t datadog-huntress==1.0.0
```

### Configuration

> 1. Create the configuration file at `/etc/datadog-agent/conf.d/huntress.yaml` (Linux/macOS) or `C:\ProgramData\Datadog\conf.d\huntress.yaml` (Windows). A fully-annotated example is at `datadog_checks/huntress/data/conf.yaml.example`.

Reviewer: Instead of saying "create", is it worth instructing users to copy and edit the example file? This seems in line with step 2, which instructs the user to edit the example instead of create from scratch. I think we can also combine steps 1 & 2 into a "copy and edit X" step. 

Two other small things:
1. "fully-annotated" doesn't need a hyphen. 
2. The path `datadog_checks/huntress/data/conf.yaml.example` is relative to the source repo, not the user's installed Agent. Can we use a relative reference and/or link to the file on GitHub?

2. Edit `huntress.yaml` with your credentials:

   ```yaml
   init_config: {}

   instances:
     - huntress_api_key: "<your_public_api_key>"
       huntress_secret_key: "<your_secret_api_key>"
       log_queries:
         - name: "all-logs"
           esql_query: "FROM logs"
       tags:
         - "source:huntress"
         - "service:huntress-siem"
         - "env:production"
   ```

3. Restart the Agent:

   ```bash
   # Linux (systemd)
   sudo systemctl restart datadog-agent

   # macOS
   sudo launchctl stop com.datadoghq.agent && sudo launchctl start com.datadoghq.agent
   ```

### Validation

> Run the Agent status command and look for `huntress` under the **Checks** section:

Reviewer: "The Agent status command" refers to `datadog-agent status`, but the code block shows `datadog-agent check huntress`, which is a different command. The description doesn't match what's shown.
```suggestion
Run the following command to validate the integration is collecting data:
```

```bash
sudo datadog-agent check huntress
```

> Logs appear in Datadog Log Explorer filtered by `source:huntress` within one collection interval (default: 15 minutes).

Reviewer: The parenthetical lands awkwardly — the reader has to back-parse to confirm "default: 15 minutes" belongs to "one collection interval" and not something else.
```suggestion
Logs appear in Datadog Log Explorer filtered by `source:huntress`. Allow up to 15 minutes for the first logs to appear.
```

> ### Multiple Huntress accounts

Reviewer: Two issues with this section:

1. **Missing conditional lead-in.** Feels a little awk/jarring to jump right into this section. I recommend starting with a conditional sentence like: "If you manage multiple Huntress accounts, add an additional block under `instances:` for each one. Each block runs independently with its own checkpoint, org metadata cache, and metrics:"

2. **Placement.** This section should appear before `### Validation`, not after. I think it also makes more sense as a subsection of Configuration. I suggest bumping the header to a level 4 (####) and moving after Configuration, before Validation.

| `org_cache_ttl_seconds`    | No       | `3600`                    | How long to cache org metadata (seconds)                                                                                                                                          |
| `max_pages_per_run`        | No       | `100`                     | Page cap per query per run (~20,000 logs maximum)                                                                                                                                 |
| `huntress_base_url`        | No       | `https://api.huntress.io` | Override for sandbox environments                                                                                                                                                 |
| `tags`                     | No       | `[]`                      | Extra tags on every forwarded metric and log                                                                                                                                      |

> \* At least one of `log_queries` or `metrics.agents.enabled: true` must be configured per instance.

Reviewer: The `No*` notation in the Required column isn't clear until the reader reaches the footnote below the table. Suggest changing both `No*` entries to `Conditional` in the table, and replacing the asterisk footnote with a `**Note:**` paragraph:

> **Note:** At least one of `log_queries` or `metrics.agents.enabled: true` must be configured per instance.

> ### Rate limit considerations

Reviewer: "Rate limit considerations" reads more like a reference section you'd skim than an actionable Setup step. Since the content gives concrete guidance (split instances to stay within the limit), suggest renaming to something more active — either "Avoid rate limit errors" or simply "Rate limits".

The Huntress API allows 60 requests per minute per API key pair. A typical run with 3 SIEM queries and agent metrics uses roughly 5 to 25 requests, well within this budget. For large accounts with high log volume or thousands of agents, consider splitting concerns across two instances using separate API key pairs:

```yaml
instances:
  # Instance 1: SIEM log collection only
  - huntress_api_key: "<logs-key>"
    huntress_secret_key: "<logs-secret>"
    log_queries:
      - name: "all-logs"
        esql_query: "FROM logs"

  # Instance 2: agent metrics only (isolated rate limit budget)
  - huntress_api_key: "<metrics-key>"
    huntress_secret_key: "<metrics-secret>"
    metrics:
      agents:
        enabled: true
```

## Data Collected

### Logs

All logs collected from the Huntress Managed SIEM API are forwarded to Datadog with:

> - `ddsource: huntress`: enables automatic log pipeline processing

Reviewer: `ddsource` is a reserved Datadog log attribute, not a tag — the current text says what it does but not what it is. Suggest clarifying:
```suggestion
- `ddsource: huntress`: a reserved log attribute that identifies the log source and triggers automatic pipeline processing
```

- ECS field names preserved as top-level log attributes (for example, `event.category`, `host.hostname`, `user.name`)
- Organization metadata tags when `enrich_with_org_tags: true` (for example, `huntress_org_name`, `huntress_org_key`, `huntress_account_id`)

### Metrics

See [metadata.csv][1] for a list of metrics provided by this integration.

### Events

The Huntress integration does not include any events.

### Service Checks

> See [service_checks.json][2] for a list of service checks provided by this integration.

Reviewer: Reference `[2]` is already claimed by the "contact Datadog support" link at line 196 (resolves to `https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/`). This link silently points to the help page instead of the service checks file. Use a new reference and add `[3]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/huntress/assets/service_checks.json` to the link definitions at the bottom.
```suggestion
See [service_checks.json][3] for a list of service checks provided by this integration.
```

## Troubleshooting

**No logs in Datadog after first run**

- Run `sudo datadog-agent check huntress` and inspect the output
- Verify the API key pair is valid by checking the Huntress Partner Portal
- Confirm the Managed SIEM feature is enabled on the account
- Check that each `log_queries[].esql_query` begins with `FROM logs`

**`huntress.siem.errors` count is increasing**

Inspect the `error_type` tag to identify the root cause:

| `error_type`       | Cause                              | Resolution                                                    |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `auth_failure`     | Invalid or rotated API credentials | Update `huntress_api_key` / `huntress_secret_key`             |

Reviewer: Per Datadog style, avoid using `/` to mean "or" — write it out.
```suggestion
| `auth_failure`     | Invalid or rotated API credentials | Update `huntress_api_key` or `huntress_secret_key`             |
```

| `timeout`          | ES\|QL query too broad             | Add a `KEEP` or `WHERE` clause to the query                   |
| `invalid_query`    | Malformed ES\|QL                   | Fix the `esql_query` value in the failing `log_queries` entry |
| `server_error`     | Transient Huntress API error       | Check [Huntress status page](https://status.huntress.com)     |
| `connection_error` | Network issue                      | Verify connectivity from the Agent host to `api.huntress.io`  |
| `run_failure`      | Unexpected error during collection | Check Agent logs for the full stack trace                     |

> **`huntress.siem.api_call_remaining` is very low or zero**

Reviewer: "very" is on the Datadog avoid list — remove it.
```suggestion
**`huntress.siem.api_call_remaining` is low or zero**
```

The Huntress API allows 60 requests per minute. The integration logs a warning when fewer than 10 requests remain in a given minute. If this happens regularly, reduce `max_pages_per_run` or increase `min_collection_interval` to spread out collection runs.

**Duplicate logs after Agent restart**

> This is expected on the first restart after a failed run. The checkpoint is only advanced after all pages are successfully sent.

Reviewer: Passive voice. Also, place `only` directly before `after` for clarity.
```suggestion
This is expected on the first restart after a failed run. The checkpoint advances only after all pages are successfully sent.
```

# Huntress

## Overview

> [Huntress](https://www.huntress.com/) is a managed security platform providing endpoint detection and response (EDR), antivirus, security awareness training, and a Managed SIEM product that continuously collects and analyzes endpoint telemetry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Huntress][5] is a managed security platform providing endpoint detection and response (EDR), antivirus, security awareness training, and a Managed SIEM product that continuously collects and analyzes endpoint telemetry.
```
Add `[5]: https://www.huntress.com/` to the link definitions at the bottom.

| `huntress_api_key`         | Yes         | -                         | Huntress public API key                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `huntress_secret_key`      | Yes         | -                         | Huntress secret API key                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |

> | `log_queries`              | Conditional | -                         | List of query objects; each has `name` (required), `esql_query` (required, must begin with `FROM logs`), and `tags` (optional). `name` is used as the `query_name` tag on metrics. **Always include a `KEEP` clause** - despite what the Huntress API docs state, queries without `KEEP` return only `uuid` and `organization_id`, not all fields. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `log_queries`              | Conditional | -                         | List of query objects; each has `name` (required), `esql_query` (required, must begin with `FROM logs`), and `tags` (optional). `name` is used as the `query_name` tag on metrics. **Always include a `KEEP` clause.** Despite what the Huntress API docs state, queries without `KEEP` return only `uuid` and `organization_id`, not all fields. |
```

    huntress_secret_key: "<metrics-secret>"
    metrics:
      agents:
        enabled: true
```

## Data Collected

### Logs

All logs collected from the Huntress Managed SIEM API are forwarded to Datadog with:

- `ddsource: huntress`: a reserved log attribute that identifies the log source and triggers automatic pipeline processing
- ECS field names preserved as top-level log attributes (for example, `event.category`, `host.hostname`, `user.name`)
- Organization metadata tags when `enrich_with_org_tags: true` (for example, `huntress_org_name`, `huntress_org_key`, `huntress_account_id`)

### Metrics

See [metadata.csv][1] for a list of metrics provided by this integration.

### Events

The Huntress integration does not include any events.

### Service Checks

See [service_checks.json][3] for a list of service checks provided by this integration.

## Troubleshooting

**No logs in Datadog after first run**

- Run `sudo datadog-agent check huntress` and inspect the output
- Verify the API key pair is valid by checking the Huntress Partner Portal
- Confirm the Managed SIEM feature is enabled on the account
- Check that each `log_queries[].esql_query` begins with `FROM logs`

> - The Huntress SIEM API requires an explicit `KEEP` clause to return log fields - without one, responses contain only `uuid` and `organization_id`. Add `| KEEP @timestamp, message, host.hostname, event.category, event.code, ...` to your query. The Agent logs will show a warning if this is detected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Huntress SIEM API requires an explicit `KEEP` clause to return log fields. Without one, responses contain only `uuid` and `organization_id`. Add `| KEEP @timestamp, message, host.hostname, event.category, event.code, ...` to your query. The Agent logs will show a warning if this is detected.
```

**`huntress.siem.errors` count is increasing**

Inspect the `error_type` tag to identify the root cause:

| `error_type`       | Cause                              | Resolution                                                    |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `auth_failure`     | Invalid or rotated API credentials | Update `huntress_api_key` or `huntress_secret_key`            |
| `timeout`          | ES\|QL query too broad             | Add a `KEEP` or `WHERE` clause to the query                   |
| `invalid_query`    | Malformed ES\|QL                   | Fix the `esql_query` value in the failing `log_queries` entry |

> | `server_error`     | Transient Huntress API error       | Check [Huntress status page](https://status.huntress.com)     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `server_error`     | Transient Huntress API error       | Check [Huntress status page][6]     |
```
Add `[6]: https://status.huntress.com` to the link definitions at the bottom.

# Huntress

## Overview

> [Huntress][5] is a managed security platform providing endpoint detection and response (EDR), antivirus, security awareness training, and a Managed SIEM product that continuously collects and analyzes endpoint telemetry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Huntress][5] is a managed security platform that provides endpoint detection and response (EDR), antivirus, security awareness training, and a Managed SIEM product that continuously collects and analyzes endpoint telemetry.
```

### Installation

Install the integration package from the Agent:

```bash
datadog-agent integration install -t datadog-huntress==1.0.0
```

### Configuration

1. Copy the [example configuration file][4] to `/etc/datadog-agent/conf.d/huntress/conf.yaml` (Linux/macOS) or `C:\ProgramData\Datadog\conf.d\huntress\conf.yaml` (Windows) and edit it with your credentials:

   ```yaml
   init_config: {}

   instances:
     - huntress_api_key: "<your_public_api_key>"
       huntress_secret_key: "<your_secret_api_key>"
       log_queries:
         - name: "all-logs"
           esql_query: "FROM logs | KEEP @timestamp, message, host.hostname, event.category, event.code, event.provider, event.id, user.target.name, user.target.domain, winlog.system.EventID"
       tags:
         - "source:huntress"
         - "service:huntress-siem"
         - "env:production"
   ```

2. Restart the Agent:

   ```bash
   # Linux (systemd)
   sudo systemctl restart datadog-agent

   # macOS
   sudo launchctl stop com.datadoghq.agent && sudo launchctl start com.datadoghq.agent
   ```

#### Multiple Huntress accounts

> If you manage multiple Huntress accounts, add an additional block under `instances:` for each one. Each block runs independently with its own checkpoint, org metadata cache, and metrics:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you manage multiple Huntress accounts, add an additional block under `instances:` for each account. Each block runs independently with its own checkpoint, org metadata cache, and metrics:
```

```yaml
instances:
  - huntress_api_key: "<account1_key>"
    huntress_secret_key: "<account1_secret>"
    log_queries:
      - name: "all-logs"
        esql_query: "FROM logs | KEEP @timestamp, message, host.hostname, event.category, event.code, event.provider, event.id, user.target.name, user.target.domain, winlog.system.EventID"
    tags: ["source:huntress", "env:production"]

  - huntress_api_key: "<account2_key>"
    huntress_secret_key: "<account2_secret>"
    log_queries:
      - name: "all-logs"
        esql_query: "FROM logs | KEEP @timestamp, message, host.hostname, event.category, event.code, event.provider, event.id, user.target.name, user.target.domain, winlog.system.EventID"
    tags: ["source:huntress", "env:staging"]
```

#### Rate limits

> The Huntress API allows 60 requests per minute per API key pair. A typical run with 3 SIEM queries and agent metrics uses roughly 5 to 25 requests, well within this budget. For large accounts with high log volume or thousands of agents, consider splitting concerns across two instances using separate API key pairs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Huntress API allows 60 requests per minute per API key pair. A typical run with 3 SIEM queries and agent metrics uses roughly 5 to 25 requests, well within the limit. For large accounts with high log volume or thousands of agents, consider distributing the load across two instances using separate API key pairs:
```

| `huntress_api_key`         | Yes         | -                         | Huntress public API key                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `huntress_secret_key`      | Yes         | -                         | Huntress secret API key                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |

> | `log_queries`              | Conditional | -                         | List of query objects; each has `name` (required), `esql_query` (required, must begin with `FROM logs`), and `tags` (optional). `name` is used as the `query_name` tag on metrics. **Always include a `KEEP` clause.** Despite what the Huntress API docs state, queries without `KEEP` return only `uuid` and `organization_id`, not all fields. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `log_queries`              | Conditional | -                         | List of query objects; each has `name` (required), `esql_query` (required, must begin with `FROM logs`), and `tags` (optional). `name` is used as the `query_name` tag on metrics. Always include a `KEEP` clause. Queries without `KEEP` return only `uuid` and `organization_id`. |
```

- ECS field names preserved as top-level log attributes (for example, `event.category`, `host.hostname`, `user.name`)
- Organization metadata tags when `enrich_with_org_tags: true` (for example, `huntress_org_name`, `huntress_org_key`, `huntress_account_id`)

### Metrics

See [metadata.csv][1] for a list of metrics provided by this integration.

### Events

The Huntress integration does not include any events.

### Service Checks

See [service_checks.json][3] for a list of service checks provided by this integration.

## Troubleshooting

**No logs in Datadog after first run**

- Run `sudo datadog-agent check huntress` and inspect the output - the summary line reports how many logs were collected and the exact time range queried
- Verify the API key pair is valid by checking the Huntress Partner Portal
- Confirm the Managed SIEM feature is enabled on the account
- Confirm `min_collection_interval: 900` is set in your instance config - without it, the Agent uses its default 15-second interval, and each run queries only a 15-second window with no new events
- Check that each `log_queries[].esql_query` begins with `FROM logs`

> - The Huntress SIEM API requires an explicit `KEEP` clause to return log fields. Without one, responses contain only `uuid` and `organization_id`. Add `| KEEP @timestamp, message, host.hostname, event.category, event.code, ...` to your query. The Agent logs will show a warning if this is detected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Run `sudo datadog-agent check huntress` and inspect the output. The summary line reports how many logs were collected and the exact time range queried.
- Verify the API key pair is valid by checking the Huntress Partner Portal.
- Confirm the Managed SIEM feature is enabled on the account.
- Confirm `min_collection_interval: 900` is set in your instance config. Otherwise, the Agent uses its default 15-second interval, and each run queries only a 15-second window with no new events.
- Check that each `log_queries[].esql_query` begins with `FROM logs`.
- The Huntress SIEM API requires an explicit `KEEP` clause to return log fields. Without one, responses contain only `uuid` and `organization_id`. Add `| KEEP @timestamp, message, host.hostname, event.category, event.code, ...` to your query. The Agent logs show a warning if this is detected.
```

**`LogsSent: 0` in `datadog-agent status` even though logs are being collected**

> This is expected. The integration sends logs directly to the Datadog Logs Intake API rather than through the Agent's internal log pipeline, so the Logs Agent counters (`LogsProcessed`, `LogsSent`) will always read 0. Use the Agent check output or Datadog Log Explorer filtered by `source:huntress` to confirm logs are arriving.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is expected. The integration sends logs directly to the Datadog Logs Intake API rather than through the Agent's internal log pipeline, so the Logs Agent counters (`LogsProcessed`, `LogsSent`) always read 0. Use the Agent check output or Datadog Log Explorer filtered by `source:huntress` to confirm logs are arriving.
```

**`huntress.siem.errors` count is increasing**

Inspect the `error_type` tag to identify the root cause:

| `error_type`       | Cause                              | Resolution                                                    |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `auth_failure`     | Invalid or rotated API credentials | Update `huntress_api_key` or `huntress_secret_key`            |

> | `timeout`          | ES\|QL query too broad             | Add a `KEEP` or `WHERE` clause to the query                   |

Reviewer: Doesn't seem to be rendering properly in the preview. Let's try this.

```suggestion
| `timeout`          |  ES&#124;QL query too broad             | Add a `KEEP` or `WHERE` clause to the query                   |
```

> | `invalid_query`    | Malformed ES\|QL                   | Fix the `esql_query` value in the failing `log_queries` entry |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `invalid_query`    | Malformed  ES&#124;QL                   | Fix the `esql_query` value in the failing `log_queries` entry |
```

| `server_error`     | Transient Huntress API error       | Check [Huntress status page][6]     |
| `connection_error` | Network issue                      | Verify connectivity from the Agent host to `api.huntress.io`  |
| `run_failure`      | Unexpected error during collection | Check Agent logs for the full stack trace                     |

**`huntress.siem.api_call_remaining` is low or zero**

The Huntress API allows 60 requests per minute. The integration logs a warning when fewer than 10 requests remain in a given minute. If this happens regularly, reduce `max_pages_per_run` or increase `min_collection_interval` to spread out collection runs.

**Duplicate logs after Agent restart**

This is expected on the first restart after a failed run. The checkpoint advances only after all pages are successfully sent.

## Support

For questions and support, [contact Datadog support][2].

[1]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/huntress/metadata.csv
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/

> [3]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/huntress/service_checks.json

Reviewer: I think this is the correct path? 

```suggestion
[3]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/huntress/assets/service_checks.json
```

# Huntress

## Overview

[Huntress](https://www.huntress.com/) is a managed security platform providing endpoint detection and response (EDR), antivirus, security awareness training, and a Managed SIEM product that continuously collects and analyzes endpoint telemetry.

This integration polls the Huntress Managed SIEM API using ES|QL queries and forwards all security events to Datadog as logs. Each collection run:

> 1. Loads a checkpoint - the timestamp of the last successful collection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Loads a checkpoint (the timestamp of the last successful collection)
```

```bash
datadog-agent integration install -t datadog-huntress==1.0.0
```

### Configuration

1. Create the configuration file at `/etc/datadog-agent/conf.d/huntress.yaml` (Linux/macOS) or `C:\ProgramData\Datadog\conf.d\huntress.yaml` (Windows). A fully-annotated example is at `datadog_checks/huntress/data/conf.yaml.example`.

2. Edit `huntress.yaml` with your credentials:

   ```yaml
   init_config: {}

   instances:
     - huntress_api_key: "<your_public_api_key>"
       huntress_secret_key: "<your_secret_api_key>"
       log_queries:
         - name: "all-logs"
           esql_query: "FROM logs"
       tags:
         - "source:huntress"
         - "service:huntress-siem"
         - "env:production"
   ```

3. Restart the Agent:

   ```bash
   # Linux (systemd)
   sudo systemctl restart datadog-agent

   # macOS
   sudo launchctl stop com.datadoghq.agent && sudo launchctl start com.datadoghq.agent
   ```

4. Verify the check:

   ```bash
   sudo datadog-agent check huntress
   ```

   Logs appear in Datadog Log Explorer filtered by `source:huntress` within one collection interval (default: 15 minutes).

### Multiple Huntress accounts

> Add additional blocks under `instances:` - each runs independently with its own checkpoint, org metadata cache, and metrics:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add additional blocks under `instances:`. Each block runs independently with its own checkpoint, org metadata cache, and metrics:
```

| `org_cache_ttl_seconds`    | No       | `3600`                    | How long to cache org metadata (seconds)                                                                                                                                          |
| `max_pages_per_run`        | No       | `100`                     | Page cap per query per run (~20,000 logs maximum)                                                                                                                                 |
| `huntress_base_url`        | No       | `https://api.huntress.io` | Override for sandbox environments                                                                                                                                                 |
| `tags`                     | No       | `[]`                      | Extra tags on every forwarded metric and log                                                                                                                                      |

\* At least one of `log_queries` or `metrics.agents.enabled: true` must be configured per instance.

### Rate limit considerations

> The Huntress API allows 60 requests per minute per API key pair. A typical run with 3 SIEM queries and agent metrics uses roughly 5 - 25 requests, well within this budget. For large accounts with high log volume or thousands of agents, consider splitting concerns across two instances using separate API key pairs:

Reviewer: Number ranges use an en dash (–) with no spaces, not ` - `.
```suggestion
The Huntress API allows 60 requests per minute per API key pair. A typical run with 3 SIEM queries and agent metrics uses roughly 5–25 requests, well within this budget. For large accounts with high log volume or thousands of agents, consider splitting concerns across two instances using separate API key pairs:
```

Author: I had to back this one out because there is a README validation that runs and rejects it due to the en dash being a non-ascii character.

```
Executing validation readmes
huntress:
    readme contains non-ASCII character(s)
    | The Huntress API allows 60 requests per minute per API key pair. A typical run with 3 SIEM queries and agent metrics uses roughly 5–25 requests, well within this budget. For large accounts with high log volume or thousands of agents, consider splitting concerns across two instances using separate API key pairs:
    |                                                                                                                                    ^                                                                                                                                                                                    

Files with errors: 1
    ✗ ddev validate all failed — fix the errors above and re-push
```

```yaml
instances:
  # Instance 1: SIEM log collection only
  - huntress_api_key: "<logs-key>"
    huntress_secret_key: "<logs-secret>"
    log_queries:
      - name: "all-logs"
        esql_query: "FROM logs"

  # Instance 2: agent metrics only (isolated rate limit budget)
  - huntress_api_key: "<metrics-key>"
    huntress_secret_key: "<metrics-secret>"
    metrics:
      agents:
        enabled: true
```

> ## Data Collected

Reviewer: The `## Data Collected` section doesn't follow the standard integration template format.

**Metrics (lines 152–173):** The inline tables duplicate `metadata.csv` and are non-standard. The convention is a single magic sentence.

**Events (line 177):** Wording should match the standard exactly.

**Service Checks (lines 181–182):** Uses a custom format instead of the magic sentence pointing to `service_checks.json`.

Suggested replacement for the full section:

```markdown
## Data Collected

### Logs

All logs collected from the Huntress Managed SIEM API are forwarded to Datadog with:

- `ddsource: huntress`: enables automatic log pipeline processing
- ECS field names preserved as top-level log attributes (for example, `event.category`, `host.hostname`, `user.name`)
- Organization metadata tags when `enrich_with_org_tags: true` (for example, `huntress_org_name`, `huntress_org_key`, `huntress_account_id`)

### Metrics

See [metadata.csv][1] for a list of metrics provided by this integration.

### Events

The Huntress integration does not include any events.

### Service Checks

See [service_checks.json][2] for a list of service checks provided by this integration.
```

Author: Replaced section with recommendation. Thanks!

### Logs

All logs collected from the Huntress Managed SIEM API are forwarded to Datadog with:

> - `ddsource: huntress` - enables automatic log pipeline processing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ddsource: huntress`: enables automatic log pipeline processing
```

| `auth_failure`     | Invalid or rotated API credentials | Update `huntress_api_key` / `huntress_secret_key`             |
| `timeout`          | ES\|QL query too broad             | Add a `KEEP` or `WHERE` clause to the query                   |
| `invalid_query`    | Malformed ES\|QL                   | Fix the `esql_query` value in the failing `log_queries` entry |
| `server_error`     | Transient Huntress API error       | Check [Huntress status page](https://status.huntress.com)     |
| `connection_error` | Network issue                      | Verify connectivity from the Agent host to `api.huntress.io`  |
| `run_failure`      | Unexpected error during collection | Check Agent logs for the full stack trace                     |

**`huntress.siem.api_call_remaining` is very low or zero**

The Huntress API allows 60 requests per minute. The integration logs a warning when fewer than 10 requests remain in a given minute. If this happens regularly, reduce `max_pages_per_run` or increase `min_collection_interval` to spread out collection runs.

**Duplicate logs after Agent restart**

> This is expected on the first restart after a failed run - the checkpoint is only advanced when all pages are successfully sent. Subsequent runs resume from the last successful checkpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is expected on the first restart after a failed run. The checkpoint is only advanced after all pages are successfully sent.
```

> Need help? Contact [Datadog support][2].

Reviewer: Redundant with the `## Support` section immediately below. Remove this line.
```suggestion
```
